Performance: Reference articles about performance tricks for SQL SELECT queries (#41)
crate/cratedb-guide: docs/admin/clustering/scale-up-down.md

(scaling-clusters)=

# Scaling Clusters Up and Down

The article about [scaling CrateDB clusters up and down to cope with peaks in
demand] shares knowledge about the [shard allocation filtering] feature of
CrateDB, and demonstrates how it is applied in a real-world data management
scenario.

Prepare adding extra nodes to the database cluster.
```sql
/* Apply routing setting to all existing partitions and new partitions. */
ALTER TABLE test SET ("routing.allocation.exclude.storage" = 'temporarynodes');

/* Configure the setting to be excluded / not applied to _new_ partitions. */
ALTER TABLE ONLY test RESET ("routing.allocation.exclude.storage");
```

Before the high-demand event, properly configure table routing accordingly.
```sql
ALTER TABLE ONLY test SET ("routing.allocation.total_shards_per_node" = 2);
```

> To decommission extra database nodes, we need to move the data collected during
> the days of the event.

Author: ```suggestion
Before decommissioning extra database nodes, you need to move the newly allocated
data back to the main nodes.
```
